# Add code and set up Code Manager

 - Set up your control repo, create a Puppetfile, and configure Code Manager so you can start adding content to your PE environments.

 - The control repo is where you store your code. Code in your control repo is usually bundled in modules.

 - The Puppetfile specifies detailed information about each environment's Puppet code and data, including where to get that code and data from, where to install it, and whether to update it.

 - Code Manager automates the management and deployment of your Puppet code. It isn't required to use PE, but it is helpful for ensuring Puppet syncs code to your primary server and all your servers run new code at the same time.
 
## Create a control repo from the Puppet template

 - To base your control repo on the Puppet control repository template, you copy the control repo template to your development workstation, set your own remote Git repository as the default source, and then push the template contents to that source.

 - The control repo template contains the files needed to get you started with a functioning control repo, including:
	- An environment.conf file to implement a site-modules/ directory for roles, profiles, and custom modules.
	- config_version scripts to notify you which control repo version was applied to the agents.
	- Basic code examples for setting up roles and profiles.
	- An example hieradata directory that matches the default hierarchy .
	- A Puppetfile to manage content maintained in your environment.

### Set up a private SSH key so that your primary server can identify itself to your Git host.
 - Generate a private SSH key to allow access to the control repository
	- ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -P '' -f /etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/ssh/id-control_repo.rsa
 - Set appropriate permissions so that the pe-puppet user can access the key
	- puppet infrastructure configure

 - Your keys are now located in /etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/ssh:
	- Private key: /etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/ssh/id-control_repo.rsa
	- Public key: /etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/ssh/id-control_repo.rsa.pub

 - Configure your Git host to use the SSH public key you generated
 - Code management needs read access to your control repository, as well as any module repositories referenced in the Puppetfile.
 - Create a repository in your Git account, with the name you want your control repo to have.
 
  - From the command line, clone the Puppet control-repo template.
	sudo yum install git
	git clone https://github.com/puppetlabs/control-repo.git
	cd control-repo
	git remote remove origin
	git remote add origin <URL OF YOUR GIT REPOSITORY>
	git push origin production
### Results
 - You now have a control repository based on the Puppet control-repo template. When you make changes to this repo on your workstation and push those changes to the remote copy of the control repo on your Git server, Code Manager deploys your infrastructure changes.
 - You also now have a Puppetfile available for you to start adding and managing content, like module code.

## Configure Code Manager
 - Code Manager stages, commits, and synchronizes your code, automatically managing your environments and modules when you make changes

### Enable Code Manager
1. In the console, click Node groups, set the following parameters in the puppet_enterprise::profile::master class in the PE Master node group.
 - code_manager_auto_configure to true.
 - r10k_remote: This is the location of your control repository. Enter a string that is a valid URL for your Git control repository. For example: git@<YOUR.GIT.SERVER.COM>:puppet/control.git.
 - r10k_private_key: Enter a string specifying the path to the SSH private key that permits the pe-puppet user to access your Git repositories. This file must be located on the primary server, owned by the pe-puppet user, and located in a directory that the pe-puppet user has permission to view. We recommend /etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/ssh/id-control_repo.rsa

1. Click Commit

Run 'puppet agent -t' on Master

after Master is done running its catalog, run:
r10k deploy display --fetch

### Set up authentication for Code Manager
 - To securely deploy environments, Code Manager needs an authentication token for both authentication and authorization.
 - To generate a token for Code Manager, first assign a user to the deployment role, and then request an authentication token.
#### Assign a user to the deployment role 
 - In the console, create a deployment user. We recommend that you create a dedicated deployment user for Code Manager use.
 - Add the deployment user to the Code Deployers role. This role is automatically created on install, with default permissions for code deployment and token lifetime management.
 - Create a password by clicking Generate Password.

#### Request an authentication token for deployments
 - Request an authentication token for the deployment user to enable secure deployment of your code.
 - By default, authentication tokens have a one-hour lifetime. With the Override default expiry permission set, you can change the lifetime of the token to a duration better suited for a long-running, automated process.
 - Generate the authentication token using the puppet-access command.
 - From the command line on the primary server, run 
	puppet-access login --lifetime 180d
 - Enter the username and password of the deployment user when prompted.

#### Results
 - The generated token is stored in a file for later use. The default location for storing the token is ~/.puppetlabs/token. To view the token, run puppet-access show.


#### Deploy your code
 - Use the command line to trigger Code Manager after making changes to your Puppetfile.
 - When you make changes to your Puppetfile, like adding a new module or creating a repo, you must deploy your code before Code Manager can recognize or start managing the content.
 - SSH into your primary server and run 
	puppet-code deploy --all --wait

# You can view the progress of the deployment on the Puppet Master with this command:
tail -f /var/log/puppetlabs/puppetserver/puppetserver.log

# Check the modules installed or not
puppet module list --modulepath /etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/modules

#### Results
 - You have deployed code to all environments. The --wait flag returns results after the deployment is finished
 - Use the command puppet-code deploy <ENVIRONMENT> to deploy code to only a specific environment